# VBA-challenge
GT Data Boot Camp VBA Homework

This VBA project summarizes three years of stock data, presented in Excel as three worksheets for each year from 2014-2016. The given dataset provides daily information on opening stock price, closing price, high and low values, and daily volume of trading for each NYSE stock. In other words, we have three lists, alphabetized by stock ticker symbol, containing over 700,000 rows of data to process. The assignment is to create new lists with one row per stock symbol, and calculate yearly change in the stock's value, yearly percent change in value, and total stock volume for the year.

In order to find this information, we need to identify and record a stock's opening value on its first day of trading, closing value on its last day of trading, and add up the trading volume for every day of trading. We also need to identify where in the extremely long list data for one stock ends and the next begins.  

This VBA code achieves these objectives by using a for loop to look at each row, and comparing the ticker symbol in one row with the ticker symbol in the next row in order to identify "break points" between stocks. Appropriate calculations and variable assignments are made based on whether the ticker symbols match. When they do match, we are seeing a new day's data for the same stock. In this case, a running total of trading volume is kept by adding that day's (row's) volume to the previously calculated total, and stored in a variable creatively named "Tot_Vol". 

When the stock ticker symbols do not match, on the other hand, we are seeing values for the last day of trading for one stock, and values for the first day of trading for another. In this case, that closing value is recorded in a variable called "year_close". The yearly change in stock value is then calculated by subtracting the opening value (previously stored in a variable called "year_open") from the closing value, and stored as a variable "Yearly_Change". Next, percent change is calculated by dividing Yearly_Change by the opening value. Then, total volume is updated to include the last day of trading. Finally, the results are recorded in a new list on the same worksheet, and variables are rewritten before starting the next loop.

For the bonus challenge to run the code on each worksheet automatically, I followed an online example which used another for loop. To find the greatest % increase, greatest % decrease, and greatest total volume for a year, I used worksheet functions for finding maximums and minimums within a range, and the match function to return the correct ticker symbol.
